# Singular-Value-Decomposition-SVD-

 1.	Problem:
Given a .tiff image, we are to perform the singular value decomposition on the image and regenerate the image for rank [5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 200]. (The algorithm works for the different image format as well)
 2.	Data:
The Data image given to us is 512 x 512 pixel image named as ruler.512.tiff. The image is required to be stored in the same directory of the program for the program to find the image.
 3.	Method:
Singular Value Decomposition says that matrix can be regenerated by dot product of three matrices. The generation of the matrix is given by following formula: - Anxp= U[nxn] S[nxp] VT[pxp]
 The numpy library is used to generate these three matrices viz U, S and Vtranspose(). 
### Note :- The svd function of numpy gives outputs 
* 	Vtranspose and not matrix V. So, there is no need for taking the transpose of the matrix ogtained.
* 	Smatrix obtained is as column matrix which is then taken according to the rank provided by the user and converted into a                    diagonal matrix (using diag() function of numpy library). The Elements of Smatrix is such that the element at (0,0) is the largest                and decreases as we traverse down the diagonal. 

 4.	Results:
The output screen ask user to provide the factor(rank) for regeneration. Once the user inputs the rank the program calculates the regeneration matrix and displays the image for that particular rank.
Note:- Install the numpy and pillow library for your version of python.
